Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-
‪[car door opens. closes]
‪Wow.
‪[Sarah] Uncle. when did you get here?
‪My child. I just arrived.
‪-How are you? [chuckles]
‪-Baby girl.
‪-Are you well?
‪-I'm good.
‪-That's good.
‪-[giggles]
‪I didn't know your father was here.
‪Yeah. he just arrived.
‪You know. this guy
‪could've saved me this trip.
‪But seeing that now you're here.
‪please take this
‪-and give it to your mother.
‪-Yes.
‪-Don't open it.
‪-[chuckling] I won't.
‪-[chuckling]
‪[both grunting. moaning]
‪[tape rewinds]
‪[children clamoring]
‪[thug 1] Hit him. hit him!
‪[thug 2] Come on. we want
‪the money. man. Take it out.
‪-[thug 1] Hit him! Give it to him!
‪-[child grunts]
‪-[blows thudding]
‪-[grunting]
‪Hey! You bastards!
‪Let go of him right now!
‪Listen here. This dog's not going anywhere
‪untless he gives us our money.
‪-What? What did you say?
‪-[thug 1] Let's get out of here!
‪[clicks tongue]
‪Jonasi.
‪Your big brother
‪should've been here to protect you.
‪Magesh doesn't care about me.
‪What about your father?
‪He's probably drunk at the tavern.
‪[sighs]
‪[chuckles] Thanks for taking care of me
‪during these matric exams. Essie.
‪-Mmm. You know me.
‪-[chuckles]
‪You know me.
‪-Mm-hmm?
‪-[grunts]
‪Hello. guys.
‪[young Jonasi] Mm-hmm.
‪[young Essie] What about your food?
‪Nah. I'm full.
‪Oh. here's the most beautiful flower
‪of them all. Hello.
‪-How are you?
‪-Well. I'm good now.
‪-Baby. [chuckles]
‪-[chuckles]
‪-[chuckles] Hey.
‪Ah. you know I've got a surprise
‪that I want to show you.
‪-A surprise?
‪-[young Jonasi] It's something very small.
‪-Relax. [chuckles]
‪-Something small?
‪-Come here. let me show you.
‪-Where is it?
‪It's right here.
‪Hello. sister Essie.
‪Oh. hello.
‪Have you seen Jonasi around?
‪No. I haven't. He said something
‪about going to the library.
‪-Thank you.
‪-All right. dear.
‪-Bye-bye. Mmm.
‪-Bye-bye.
‪[young Essie] When are you going to stop
‪these shenanigans of two-timing girls?
‪One day is one day. You'll get caught.
‪The day you let me into that heart
‪of yours is the day I'll stop all of this.
‪Yeah. right. In your dreams.
‪But dream on. because I have got
‪my own man.
‪[groans] You mean that idiot. S'bhamu?
‪[clicks tongue] There's nothing he can do
‪that I can't do for you myself.
‪You know that.
‪Now you're talking nonsense.
‪You need to leave.
‪-Dream about me tonight. Okay?
‪-Just go.
‪Ha! [chuckles]
‪[scoffs]
‪[young Essie] I can't go with you today.
‪Get your ass back in the car.
‪I said get back in there!
‪You know what? I'm tired
‪of you always treating me like trash.
‪-Let me go. let me go!
‪-Didn't you hear her what she said?
‪And then?
‪Jonasi. stay out of this.
‪Not until he lets you go.
‪-[scoffs]
‪-[gun rattles]
‪And who the hell do you think you are
‪meddling in my business?
‪I'm her man.
‪-[breathing heavily]
‪-[S'bhamu] What you say?
‪I'm her man. What are you going to do?
‪[young Essie] Jonasi. stop it. Goodness.
‪You're going to regret this. You hear me?
‪Watch your back. boy. [clicks tongue]
‪[engine starts. revs]
‪-And you? Do you have a death wish?
‪-Essie. he doesn't deserve you.
‪I'd die for you. Essie.
‪I love you.
‪[young Essie] ‪I hope you've dumped
‪all your girlfriends.
‪[young Jonasi chuckles]
‪I'm serious.
‪You have nothing to worry about.
‪I promise. [chuckles]
‪[sighs]
‪What's wrong?
‪You know. I got into a fight
‪with my father again.
‪Hmm.
‪He promised that he would give me
‪some money
‪to help me pay
‪for my university application.
‪Now he says he doesn't have money.
‪Yet he always comes home drunk
‪every night.
‪I might as well end up running the streets
‪like Magesh and the gang.
‪Or maybe I'll join S'bhamu's gang.
‪No. absolutely not.
‪How much do you need?
‪[sighs] I need a lot of money.
‪-Move.
‪-[sighs]
‪So. this money. I've been saving it.
‪braiding my clients.
‪[coughs] Essie. I can't take your money.
‪You've been talking about going to
‪university since you were in standard 6.
‪Here's the money.
‪Take it.
‪[young Jonasi chuckles]
‪Thank you.
‪So. you just make sure
‪that you get that scholarship.
‪I'm definitely gonna do that.
‪You're going to call me though. right?
‪[chuckles] No. I'll call you everyday.
‪And I'll be back to see you
‪at the end of every month.
‪[young Essie] Mm-mmm.
‪You need to focus when you're there.
‪I'll see you properly
‪at the end of every semester.
‪You'll see. the time will fly so fast.
‪Don't waste this opportunity. Jonasi.
‪I won't let you down. MaQwabe.
‪Let me get going.
‪[young Jonasi]
‪My beautiful MaQwabe. hello.
‪[sighs] I miss you so much.
‪[young Jonasi chuckles]
‪I was just thinking
‪about how I miss you as well.
‪We only have two more weeks
‪until the semester is over.
‪so I can finally see you.
‪I really do miss you. my love.
‪I hear there are
‪a lot of pretty girls there.
‪For sure they must be
‪throwing themselves at you.
‪[young Jonasi laughs]
‪Not at all. my love.
‪You know that my eyes are
‪only meant for looking at you.
‪And you stole my heart
‪a long time ago. you thief.
‪[chuckles]
‪Listen. uh. MaQwabe.
‪Uh… I have to attend to something.
‪We'll chat soon.
‪I love you.
‪-[call ends]
‪-[sighs]
‪Just to more weeks.
‪[chuckles]
‪[giggles]
‪Friend. exams are over now.
‪-He has to answer.
‪-Yes.
‪[dialing]
‪[clears throat]
‪[line ringing]
‪[sighs. smacks lips]
‪[young Essie]
‪Yo. let me know when you feel the burn.
‪Freedom.
‪Take this sweet and go play over there.
‪Goodness. this child.
‪-You know what?
‪-No. man.
‪No way.
‪-[young Essie] What?
‪-[friend] Is this not Jonasi?
‪Goodness.
‪No way.
‪"Jonasi Gomora. apprentice
‪at Albert Ndlovu Construction
‪marries Joyce Jele."
‪Mmm. mmm. mmm.
‪Friend. I can feel the burn.
‪[dramatic music plays]
‪Friend!
‪-Let's go play.
‪-Gimme a break. Freedom. Just go play.
‪[young Essie sighs]
‪[young Jonasi] ‪And when I come back…
‪-[young Essie] ‪Mmm.
‪-‪…I want white flags on all these gates.
‪I want everyone to know
‪that it's your wedding.
‪-[laughs]
‪-After that. I want to go. "Wham!"
‪-Mmm.
‪-And build you a double-story house.
‪Then I'm going to buy you
‪a red convertible. BMW.
‪-Just like S'bhamu's one?
‪-S'bhamu will have nothing on yours.
‪-[chuckles]
‪-You're such a big dreamer. Jonasi.
‪[young Jonasi] ‪I'm going to make
‪all of your dreams come true. MaQwabe.
‪-[young Essie] ‪Mmm.
‪-[young Jonasi] ‪I promise you.
‪Thank you.
‪[young Jonasi] ‪I want everyone
‪to know that it's your wedding.
‪-[young Essie laughs]
‪-‪After that. I want to go. "Wham!"
‪And build you
‪a double-story house.‪ [chuckles]
‪[young Essie]
‪You're such a big dreamer. Jonasi.
‪[horn honking]
‪Jonasi?
‪Do you like it?
‪Is this you?
‪It's me. my love.
‪I'm back. I'm here.
‪After all these years.
‪and you call me love?
‪You stopped calling me.
‪You don't check on me or visit me.
‪Ah. well. my love.
‪you know. when I left here.
‪you told me to focus and not to allow
‪absolutely anything to distract me.
‪And that's exactly what I did. Mm-hmm.
‪Do you remember back in the day. when
‪you used to tell me about your dream car?
‪Which I promised to buy for you
‪when I started making money?
‪It's yours. [chuckles]
‪-Jonasi.
‪-Uh-huh.
‪No way. Jonasi. Wow. My goodness.
‪-This is the car. Jonasi.
‪-Yeah?
‪-I love it. I love it. I love it!
‪-Yeah? Yeah?
‪[chuckles]
‪-[gasps]
‪-Yeah. yeah.
‪So. tell me.
‪who's this little one right here?
‪Oh. that's my son. Freedom.
‪Essie. Please don't tell me you had
‪a child with that idiot. S'bhamu.
‪I didn't know that you were coming back.
‪You also went to marry some girl.
‪I read the newspapers.
‪[sighs]
‪Look. let's talk
‪when we get back. my love.
‪For now. let's just take the car
‪for a test drive and. y-you know. enjoy.
‪-Did you enjoy that?
‪-[young Freedom] Mmm.
‪You did?
‪[both chuckle]
‪-Yeah.
‪-[sighs]
‪-What a mean machine.
‪-[chuckles]
‪Wow.
‪-[sighs]
‪-[grunts]
‪Marry me. MaQwabe.
‪But you're already married.
‪I want to take you as my second wife.
‪I'll talk to Joyce. Leave that to me.
‪[sighs]
‪Jonasi. you know… I don't know.
‪MaQwabe. I am the man I am today
‪because of everything that you did for me.
‪Please let me thank you in the right way.
‪Can you make me the happiest man alive?
‪By saying yes.
‪-["Intombi" playing]
‪-Well. hurry up.
‪[both laugh]
‪We send our greetings to the Qwabe clan.
‪[reciting clan praises in Zulu]
‪[in English] Ye. who eat meat
‪while engaging with others
‪-in conversation…
‪-Auntie.
‪…and said. "Here we feast."
‪They're here. the Gomoras.
‪We have finally arrived.
‪We. the Gomoras.
‪are here to unite our families.
‪[song ends]
‪[ululating]
‪[singing in Zulu. whistling]
‪♪ ‪You can go lower. if you like ‪♪
‪-‪♪ ‪Which side are you on? ‪♪
‪-‪♪ ‪Goodness ‪♪
‪♪ ‪Which side are you choosing? ‪♪
‪-‪♪ ‪That side? That side? ‪♪
‪-‪♪ ‪This side. this side ‪♪
‪♪ ‪Which side are you on? ‪♪
‪[cheering. ululations continue]
‪[traditional music playing]
‪[no audible dialogue]
‪-♪ ‪That side? That side?‪ ♪
‪-♪ ‪This side. this side‪ ♪
‪[cheering. ululations continue]
‪["Tshepo - II (Rapela)" playing]
‪[young Essie] I can already see how cute
‪she's going to look in this one.
‪[young Jonasi chuckles]
‪[gasps] Oh. look at these.
‪They're so cute.
‪-We have to buy them. [gasps]
‪-[chuckles]
‪My goodness.
‪-[exclaims]
‪-Mm-hmm?
‪Yeah. but… [sighs]
‪…everything here is expensive.
‪-[sighs. smacks lips]
‪-Oh. come on.
‪Stop playing around. Let's grab those.
‪Let's make sure
‪our daughter wants for nothing.
‪-Mmm. So what else are we going to take?
‪-[chuckles]
‪-Uh…
‪-[inhales sharply]
‪-Let's go that side. [chuckles]
‪-Let's go that side.
‪-No. no. no. No. no. no. no. no.
‪-Come on. [chuckles]
‪-You want to spend all my money.
‪-Let me look this side.
‪-[both laugh]
‪-[young Joyce] Jonasi.
‪-[dramatic music playing]
‪-Uh. what brings you here?
‪[chuckles] Joyce.
‪[stammers] Who… Who is this woman?
‪Oh. this is…
‪This is Essie. this is. uh…
‪my brother's wife. Uh. Magesh.
‪Magesh has a wife?
‪What? You didn't know? [chuckles]
‪That's a surprise. [chuckles]
‪He asked me. uh. to bring her here
‪for a bit of baby shopping.
‪He's tied up on site.
‪-Um…
‪-[young Joyce] Hmm.
‪My name is Joyce. I'm this man's wife.
‪Essie.
‪[chuckles] Essie. can you believe
‪these brothers? Hiding us from each other?
‪Oh. yes.
‪They're quite good at it.
‪[young Joyce] Wow. [smacks lips]
‪I see you're also having a girl.
‪That means our daughters
‪are going to be twins.
‪And they'll play with my son.
‪Menzi. [chuckles]
‪[young Jonasi chuckles]
‪Please take me home.
‪-Hmm?
‪-I'm tired and my feet are swollen.
‪Oh. uh. that's all right. That's okay.
‪Uh. I'll see you at home.
‪-[young Joyce] Mmm.
‪-[young Jonasi] Yeah.
‪[both chuckle]
‪Uh. Essie. It's so nice to meet you.
‪-I'll invite you over for dinner.
‪-Mm-hmm.
‪[both chuckle]
‪Joyce. Yeah…
‪[young Essie]
‪You said that Joyce knows about me.
‪[young Jonasi] I wanted to tell her.
‪but I couldn't.
‪[young Essie] And you forgot?
‪[young Jonasi] Joyce's father was
‪the one helping me secure a tender.
‪so I couldn't just tell her.
‪Okay. now you got the tender. right?
‪Then why didn't you tell her the truth
‪there and then?
‪[sighs]
‪Goodness.
‪[hopeful music playing]
‪[young Jonasi] Mm-hmm.
‪-What are we doing here?
‪-[breathing sharply]
‪Didn't I ask you to take me home?
‪We are home. MaQwabe. We are at our home.
‪Jonasi. I don't have time for games today.
‪Not at all.
‪MaQwabe. do you remember I promised you
‪-that when I return…
‪-[sighs]
‪…I will build you the double-story
‪of your dreams?
‪Your very own.
‪-[sighs]
‪-Well. I'm back.
‪and here's the house I promised.
‪It's all yours.
‪double-story and everything.
‪Surprise.
‪-[chuckles]
‪-[chuckles] Are you serious?
‪Do you like it? [chuckles]
‪[stammers] I love it. [chuckles]
‪-I love it.
‪-[chuckles]
‪[young Essie]
‪You've elevated my status. Gomora.
‪Well. you deserve all the fine things
‪this world has to offer.
‪-Mmm. Mmm. [chuckles]
‪-Mm-hmm? [chuckling]
‪Listen. I have to go now.
‪I don't want Joyce
‪to start asking me questions
‪I don't have answers to.
‪What?
‪So. you're not planning on telling her
‪about me anytime soon?
‪Don't do that. my love. please.
‪You know how much I don't like
‪to see you getting upset.
‪I'm your wife. Gomora.
‪I'm not some dirty little secret.
‪I know. my love.
‪It's just that J&J has secured
‪a major contract worth a lot of money.
‪I can't just drop this bomb on her.
‪So. because Joyce holds the money bags.
‪I must just play along and toe the line?
‪For now. my love.
‪Please.
‪Have you forgotten
‪that we have a baby on the way?
‪I know. Just please stop stressing.
‪You know stress is not good for the baby.
‪I'll see you.
‪[upbeat music playing]
‪I don't want to be here. Magesh.
‪I don't have the time to pretend.
‪Well then. in that case. next time
‪you should come up with another excuse.
‪Well. for your brother's sake.
‪I hope there won't be a next time.
‪[sighs] What's up. brother?
‪Hello. brother.
‪MaQwabe. I'm really grateful
‪that you're doing this.
‪Just stop.
‪Let's get this over and done with.
‪[sighs]
‪-[young Magesh] My sister.
‪-I'm so glad you made it.
‪-We're happy to be here.
‪-You're welcome.
‪Thank you.
‪[young Essie] Wow.
‪-Who's at the door? Hmm?
‪-[young Sarah chuckles]
‪-Who's that? Who's that?
‪-[door opens]
‪Let's see.
‪[sighs]
‪Brother.
‪Good day.
‪Jonasi's caught up at the office…
‪-Mmm.
‪-…and he asked me to bring this to you.
‪Oh.
‪[sighs]
‪-[sighs]
‪-Is everything okay?
‪It could be if your brother
‪would visit more often.
‪-Yeah. he got a tender to build a school.
‪-[wistful music playing]
‪Here? In Diepkloof?
‪Where it doesn't event take five minutes
‪to get here?
‪-[scoffs] Stop making excuses for him.
‪-No. no. no.
‪-No. I'm not trying to make--
‪-No.
‪We last saw your brother six months ago.
‪As for me. I've made peace with the fact
‪that. you know what? I've let him go.
‪But the kids?
‪Sarah barely remembers him.
‪No. Come on.
‪Come on.
‪[cassette rewinding]
‪[crickets chirping]
‪[sucks teeth. exclaims] Thank you.
‪Thank you. MaQwabe.
‪And thank you. Sarah.
‪Hmm. Oh. hey.
‪I almost forgot. [singsongy] Yes.
‪-[normal] Yes.
‪-[chuckles]
‪-Yes.
‪-[all laugh]
‪[Jonasi] Mm-hmm.
‪I asked for this months ago. but oh. well.
‪Uh… What was that?
‪[chuckles] Thank you so much. Dad.
‪I like it.
‪Oh. That's good.
‪Mm-hmm.
‪Oh. hold on. Now. tell me. what about
‪your. um… driving… your driving license?
‪[Sarah]
‪Is Dad thinking of getting me a car?
‪-That's not what I said.
‪-[chuckles]
‪[Jonasi] That's not what I said.
‪All I'm saying is go do your research
‪and let me know which one you like.
‪And then. we will just take it from there.
‪-Yes. yes. Thank you so much. Dad.
‪-There we go.
‪-[chuckling]
‪-[Jonasi] Mm-hmm.
‪-[Essie] My goodness.
‪-[Jonasi] Wow.
‪-Are you not going to clear the table?
‪-My word.
‪-Oh. [chuckles]
‪-You forgot the plates?
‪-Yeah. [chuckles]
‪-[Jonasi] Hey.
‪-Here. take this.
‪-Thank you. Mom.
‪-Wow. Will you get that car?
‪-[Sarah] Yeah.
‪[both chuckle]
‪[chuckles] My goodness.
‪-Jonasi. do you think buying her a car…
‪-[dramatic music playing]
‪…is going to make her forget
‪about the ceremony?
‪[clears throat]
‪You and I both know that this isn't
‪about the ceremony.
‪You're right.
‪The announcement about the Matipa twins
‪really upset her.
‪And it made matters worse.
‪-Then talk to her.
‪-I tried.
‪This child is a ticking time bomb.
‪-So… So. tell me. Ma-MaQwabe.
‪-[exhales sharply]
‪What are you saying?
‪Jonasi.
‪Sarah didn't sign up for this.
‪I didn't ask for this.
‪Actually. I'm tired
‪of always lying for you.
‪You have to fix this.
‪Listen.
‪About this whole Matipa thing…
‪Can we wait for the dust to settle?
‪After that. I'll sort everything out.
‪I'll do it personally.
‪Mm-hmm?
‪Hopefully it won't take you too long.
‪because this bomb will explode.
‪[Jonasi] Mmm.
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm